#labels Featured
=INQLE Architecture=

INQLE is a standalone, server-based Java application.  It runs on any operating system.  As a prerequisite, it requires only [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp Java SE version 6 and above], and a relational database system. [http://jena.sourceforge.net/SDB/ Supported RDBMS] include
  * MySQL
  * PostgreSQL
  * MSSQL
  * Oracle
  * HSQLDB
  * Derby
  * H2

==Plugin Framework==
INQLE runs in a plug-in framework called [http://www.eclipse.org/equinox/ Equinox OSGi], (from [http://www.eclipse.org/ Eclipse]). As such, the core application consists of a number of component plugins, also known as "bundles", each of which contributes a set of functionality. This infrastructure permits INQLE to be extended, through contribution of new bundles. Below is a synopsis of the bundles that comprise the core INQLE server.

Here is a list of OSGi bundles which we have developed, to facilitate INQLE's functionality.

|| *Bundle* || *Description* ||
|| org.inqle.core || Contains core INQLE constants and utilities. ||
|| org.inqle.core.extensions || Contains utilities for working with Eclipse extensions. ||
|| org.inqle.core.db|| Contains JDBC libraries for connecting to the abobe listed relational databases. ||
|| [Bundle_org_inqle_data_rdf_jenabean org.inqle.data.rdf.jenabean] || Contains Jena toolkit, for working with RDF, Jenabean library for Java-to-RDF persistence, and adaptor code for simplifying both SPARQL queries and persisting INQLE objects in an RDF store. ||
|| [Bundle_org_inqle_ui_rap org.inqle.ui.rap] || Contains code for running the web-based user interface, using Eclipse RAP.  Includes UI code for wizards for making database connections, dataset objects (!RDBModel). ||
|| [Bundle_org_inqle_experiment_rapidminer org.inqle.experiment.rapidminer] || Contains [http://rapid-i.com/content/blogcategory/10/69/ RapidMiner] library, and code for executing the Learning Cycle.  Also includes user interface code for creating custom Learning Cycles. ||
|| [Bundle_org_inqle_agent org.inqle.agent] || Contains code for running automated agents, plus provides a basic implementation for running !JUnit tests from the RAP user interface. ||

==Eclipse RAP User Interface==
[http://www.eclipse.org/rap/ Eclipse RAP] is a web application framework, for generating functional web applications, with similar emphasis on productivity that is the hallmark of  the extremely successful [http://wiki.eclipse.org/index.php/Rich_Client_Platform Eclipse desktop client].

The INQLE interface thus is a rich, AJAX-based web page.  Coding for Eclipse RAP is 80% identical to coding an application based on Eclipse RCP (Rich Client Platform).  The RAP framework translates the Java code into appropriate mix of front-end HTML and AJAX-powered Javascript, and back-end Java code running on the Server.  The complexity inherent in such server-to-rich client interaction is hidden by the RAP framework.

==!RapidMiner Machine Learning Suite==
INQLE incorporates this best-of-breed machine learning tool, to perform its data mining experiments.  Users can author new machine learning experiments using the fine open source application [http://rapid-i.com/content/blogcategory/10/69/ RapidMiner], and add them to INQLE as plugins.  